Preserve length prefixes in ClientHelloOuterAAD (#442)
tlswg/draft-ietf-tls-esni: draft-ietf-tls-esni.md

To prevent a network attacker from modifying the reconstructed ClientHelloInner
(see {{flow-clienthello-malleability}}), ECH authenticates ClientHelloOuter by
passing ClientHelloOuterAAD as the associated data for HPKE sealing and opening
operations. The ClientHelloOuterAAD is a serialized ClientHello structure,
defined in {{Section 4.1.2 of RFC8446}}, which matches the ClientHelloOuter
except the `payload` field of the "encrypted_client_hello" is replaced with a
byte string of the same length but whose contents are zeros. This value does
not include the four-byte header from the Handshake structure.

The client constructs ClientHelloOuterAAD first, followed by ClientHelloOuter.

> First, the client predicts the length of the `payload` based on the HPKE AEAD

Reviewer: I'm kind of thrown off by the use of the word "predict." It suggests to me that there's a chance that the prediction might be wrong. Should it not be "compute" instead? Or is there in fact a chance it might be wrong?

encryption context computed for the first ClientHelloOuter, and sets `enc` to
the empty string. Note that the HPKE context maintains a sequence number, so
this operation internally uses a fresh nonce for each AEAD operation. Reusing
the HPKE context avoids an attack described in {{flow-hrr-hijack}}.

The client then computes ClientHelloOuterAAD ({{authenticating-outer}}) by
constructing a ClientHello with all other extensions determined as in
{{real-ech}}.

Next, the client determines the length L of encrypting EncodedClientHelloInner
with the selected HPKE AEAD. This is typically the sum of the plaintext length
and the AEAD tag length. The client fills in a "encrypted_client_hello"
extension with the following values:

- `config_id`, the identifier corresponding to the chosen ECHConfig structure;
- `cipher_suite`, the client's chosen cipher suite;
- `enc`, as computed above; and
- `payload`, a placeholder byte string containing L zeros.

If optional configuration identifiers (see {{optional-configs}}) are used,
`config_id` SHOULD be set to a randomly generated byte in the first
ClientHelloOuter and MUST be left unchanged for the second ClientHelloOuter.

> The client serializes this structure compute the ClientHelloOuterAAD. It then

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The client serializes this structure to construct the ClientHelloOuterAAD. It then
```

computes the payload as:

~~~

>     payload = context.Seal(ClientHelloOuterAAD,

Reviewer 2: Maybe we call this enc_payload (or final_payload or something) to distinguish between the payload extension value? The following sentence read a bit weird to me, where it refers to "payload" and "this value."

Author: Done

Author: (Went with final_payload because enc_payload seemed potentially confusing with enc.)

Reviewer 2: 👍
